
https://hackviser.com/tactics/pentesting/services/nfs

# NFS (Network File System)

`Default Port: 2049`

**NFS (Network File System)** is a protocol that provides shared file system services on a computer network. NFS allows a server to share directories and files, which can then be mounted on client machines over the network.

NFS operates on a server-client model, where the server shares file systems and clients can use these shared files.

## **Connection:**
### Connecting to NFS Shares

Mounting NFS shares is typically done using the `mount` command. For example:

```
mount -t nfs X.X.X.X:/path/to/share /mnt/nfs
```

This command mounts the share located at `/path/to/share` on the server with IP address `X.X.X.X` to the `/mnt/nfs` directory.

### Listing NFS Shares
The `showmount` command can be used to list the shares on a server:

```
showmount -e X.X.X.X
```

## Enumeration
### Discovering NFS Shares
Tools like `Nmap` can be used to discover NFS shares on a target host. For example:

```
nmap -p 2049 X.X.X.X
```

### Exploiting NFS Shares
Mounting NFS shares can reveal sensitive information and potentially lead to unauthorized access if proper access controls are not in place.

## Attack Vectors
### Unauthorized Access to NFS Shares

Unauthorized access to NFS shares allows an attacker to access and even modify sensitive data over the network. This poses a significant risk if proper authorization is not enforced.

### Compromising NFS Servers

Compromising an NFS server grants an attacker full access to files on the server. This enables access to sensitive data and can even be used as a pivot point to further compromise other devices on the network.

### NFS Brute Force Attacks

Brute force attacks to gain access to NFS servers are a common tactic. When authorization is weak, attackers can use this method to crack passwords and gain access to the server.

## Post-Exploitation
### Permission on NFS Servers

After a successful breach, attackers can gain full access to files on the server. This provides access to sensitive information and can lead to further targeted attacks or data exfiltration.

### Information Exfiltration

Files on NFS servers often contain sensitive information. After a successful attack, retrieving these files and using the information therein allows attackers to further their goals or leak information.

